# Open board call notes

Discussing https://discourse.nixos.org/t/board-update-2-assembly-appointment-process/45048 and QnA

Attendees: @thufschmitt @infinisil @nat-418 @Janik @hexa @tomberek @edef @raitobezarius @drupol @fricklerhandwerk @coca @julienmalka @imincik @brianmcgee 

Notes by: @infinisil

## Notes

- @nat-418: Mod team action happening when?
  - @infinisil: Today
  - @hexa: Scheduled 1-on-1s
- @nat-418: Applications starting tomorrow?
  - @thufschmitt: Yes, still need to finish the application form, template form
  - @thufschmitt: There are topics on Zulip to give input about what should be in the form
- @nat-418: Unsettled question, how will the assembly communicate with the community, also on Zulip or will that be done in a couple days?
  - @infinisil: Zulip will stay around after the assembly is appointed, way for the community give input to the assembly
  - @thufschmitt: That's right
- @nat-418: Does @infinisil need help?
  - @infinisil: Doing good for now
  - @thufschmitt: Good to have a backup
  - @janik: To clarify, there's 5/6 moderators
- @thufschmitt: Let's go through the statement
- @thufschmitt: Regarding Zulip, too many messages, hard for everyone to follow what's going on. Was an attempt at providing summaries, but also not ideal. This post is a bit of a high level summary of all the discussions
  - @fricklerhandwerk: Last board statement reads like there are no final decisions yet, is that correct?
    - @thufschmitt: Yes, trying to defer decisions to leave opportunity for people to express themselves, but will start making decisions tomorros
    - @infinisil: Some rough decisions, can be refined though
  - People without a Zulip account can't easily keep track of things
- @thufschmitt: To emphasize: If you think you're not being heard, you're welcome to send a PM to board members. We're all also suffering from it being hard to catch up
  - @nat-418: Tried to write some summaries, but they seem to have caused contention and meta-discussion, so gave up trying
  - @infinisil: Still trying to figure out how to use Zulip effectively, we can figure that out over the next months
  - @coca: Also for users who don't have a account they can't really keep track of what they have read with the client. So it is a bit more annoying for outside observers wanting to keep up
  - @edef: might be worth offering non-speaking guest accounts, for those who aren't otherwise eligible to participate
  - @tomberek: I appreciate the summaries, thanks for writing them
- @thufschmitt: Who thinks summaries were useful? Show of hands
  - [Some general sentiment to them being useful]
  - @nat-418: In threads with rough consensus there was not much contention. Summaries are needed moreso for others
  - @thufschmitt: Summaries seem to be useful, hard to write when discussion not settled
- @thufschmitt: We've also started talking with outside experts on governance, for input and assembly, they can bring an outside perspective and be experienced with handling the kind of growth we're having
  - @fricklerhandwerk: Who concretely was that?
    - @thufschmitt: Not sure myself, Ron is doing that
    - @infinisil (and others): Sarah Novotny
    - Others: Danielle from Kubernetes
- @thufschmitt: Nominations supposed to open tomorrow, applications will be on Zulip
- @thufschmitt: How to handle discussions on nominations not fully clear yet
  - @nat-418: Think it's ridiculous for random people to comment on applications. Should be closed, seems bizarre
  - @infinisil: Opinion: The idea is to make the process transparent, and give an opportunity for people to interact and get familiar with candidates. Comments will be made regardless, in other places. We should definitely have strict rules of interaction though, to keep it respectful.
- @thufschmitt: Open applications until end of Sunday, gives some time to apply
  - @Guilhem: If we decide there will be applications and not nominations, we can consider a way for people suggesting they would like others to apply. Eg: If I would like to see X apply, can I send them a PM on Zulip about it ?
  - @thufschmitt: Informally definitely yes. Nothing preventing that. Probably no formal channel for that, doesn't seem necessary
  - @Guilhem: Am afraid somebody that's deeply involved in the community will get overwhelmed by solicitations, and sending refusals may be taxing
  - @thufschmitt: Yes that is a risk, personally don't think it's a big one, but might be wrong. Would you suggest asking people to not solicitate applications?
  - @Guilhem: If we think there's little chance of it being a problem it seems fine
  - @edef: Missing out on applicants is probably our bigger risk
- @thufschmitt: Regarding nominations (by others) vs applications (by themselves). So far likely to be applications. It's a tough job, needs personal commitment
- @thufschmitt: Expect to have decision on assembly membership before May 12th
  - @Guilhelm: (writing)
- @thufschmitt: Questions on mission of the assembly?
  - @fricklerhandwerk: What does it mean to "accomodate" official resources? How are official resources defined? NixOS GitHub org? nix-community? Others?
  - @thufschmitt: Will be a task to figure that out. nix-community specifically is not considered official as of now
  - @fricklerhandwerk: Needs balance between specificity and openness. Not sure if this should be part of the mission. There's also a community team lead meeting today, related, and known to be tricky. Assembly should be able to terminate successfully.
  - @thufschmitt: I don't think the assembly should define exactly which project is part of it. Instead, assembly needs to be able to handle the official resources and set those limits. No way to enforce the decisions
  - @fricklerhandwerk: Would you say a key aspect should be "Further refining the boundaries of the community"?
    - @thufschmitt: A bit, but moreso what it means for it to be an *official* project. Structure should work for all official Nix resources
  - @nat-418: My understanding is that it's a constitutional assembly, the board is constituted, no question of reconstituting that. Assembly is to constitute the Nix community.
    - @infinisil: In principle the NixOS Foundation can delegate any power they have, and that may as well be that new structure the assembly is constituting
      - @thufschmitt: Right
- @Raitobezarius: Regarding long-standing members having to be there for 5 years, what's the intent with specific number?
  - @thufschmitt: Intent to have people that have been there for a while and have seen the community evolve, good understandnig of mechanism. Specifics of the 5 years is up for debate, possibly would want to shrink that a little, not final
  - @hexa: Concern: Checked the list of people who have contributed for that long. Not many that are actively contributing today. Having the backwards view is great, but not being a currently active member would be a problem. 4 or 3 years could get closer to them having seen both ends of history.
  - @thufschmitt: Makes sense, there could also be an inbetween without a hard limit, but taking into account individuals experience and involvement
  - @fricklerhandwerk: Suggestion: Phrase it in a way that it's not a definite number, but rather a guiding principle. Based on my intuition of the composition of the community, we might be short on candidates. Define the boundaries in a deliberately fuzzy way to leave room for judgement
  - @thufschmitt: Great point, size of candidate pool is an unknown for now, hard to predict the range of experience in advance
  - @Raitobezarius: Anybody has an ideal number of applicants? Would we want e.g. 50 (spitballing)?
  - @thufschmitt: Have to take into account time needed to review; maybe twice the size of the expected assembly would be good
  - @fricklerhandwerk: Boundary condition: What if there's exactly 7 applicants?
  - @thufschmitt: Size is flexible, but if there's 7 reasonable (for some definiton of reasonable) people, sounds fine. If some aren't acceptable might need another round with different rules or rethink the process. Please apply if you think you can bring something!
  - @fricklerhandwerk: Need to optimise for termination of the process, worried that we cannot afford to rerun it
  - @thufschmitt: Fair concern, any opinions?
    - @nat-418: Board has bylaws, there's provisions for dissolution, liquidation, etc.
      - @thufschmitt: What's the next step then?
      - @fricklerhandwerk: Quite extreme
      - @nat-418: Need to have skin in the game. Few dozen people chatting in Zulip, not really reaching consensus. Must be imperative. Board should discuss this, needs to be gotten right
      - @hexa: Instead of going for the nuclear option, what about a minimal community governance solution
          - @fricklerhandwerk: Various possible scenarios, would be for the board to discuss
      - @tomberek: This can be a topic discussed on Zulip
          - @raitobezarius: Already being discussed, no outcome, the board needs to decide that
      - @nat-418: I don't think anybody wants this to fail, so let's try to not fail
  - @thufschmitt: More of a question what happens when the application process itself fails
    - @nat-418: Sorry for opening can of worms
    - @tomberek: Without enough applicants, would be surprised, but should notify that that's the case. Can be extended. If that's also fails, discuss further
    - @nat-418: Echoing @infinisil, let the board decide the assembly, even if there's not enough
- @thufschmitt: On mission, point on the assembly having to ensure that the result is representative of the community. Point on constitution: It's for the assembly to define what the community is.
- @thufschmitt: Goal to solve problems long-term (~5 years), not just for the time being
- @thufschmitt: Timeline a bit unclear
  - @fricklerhandwerk: My estimate, a couple months. Hope to have some guidelines to write what can be expected, so that the scope can be cut accordingly. E.g. if we say 2 months, we can estimate how much can get done, and make sure the output is self-sustainable
  - @thufschmitt: Could set a deadline with some margins. E.g. 6 months, which should give enough time, but still bound it. Might be up to the assembly to decide, depends on how much assembly members can spend on this
  - @fricklerhandwerk: Resource problem for assembly members. But have to give a guideline beforehand, so applicants know what they get into
  - @nat-418: Appreciate the board clearly defining things from the start
  - @fricklerhandwerk: Need an authoritative decision, but we're in the process of figuring out together what would be a reasonable decision to begin with
  - @Janik: If we're talking about people paying to be part of the assembly, the timeframe needs to be defined ahead of time
  - @thufschmitt: Indeed, needs to have a boundary, funding isn't infinite.
  - @nat-418: Worth discussing in Zulip?
  - @thufschmitt: Yes, very good point to discuss. Probably various thoughts on how to do estimates
- @thufschmitt: Everything about the application has to be settled until tomorrow.
    - One of the important points is the last one about criteria and the one about representation
- @thufschmitt: Look of the applications can also just be decided by the board, more of a procedural question
  - @fricklerhandwerk: How can we help you [the board]?
    - @thufschmitt: Executive summary on the state of discussion concerning the main questions, to get an overview of consensus or dissent
- (thanks and ciao!)
