# Open Board call notes

Time: 2024-05-06 20:00 CEST
Duration: ~1 hour
Notes by: @infinisil

- @ronef: Expencting to have another 2 calls this week, more as needed
- @ronef: Main point to get some synchronous updates, feedback and alignments
- @ronef: Today, take a look at the update we're working for about the process of the assembly, etc.
- @ronef: Also open to community input
- @shlevy: What is the goal with Zulip? Starting the discussion for the assembly, but also informing the board on informing the assembly
  - @ronef: Want to make the formation actionable, very constrained timeline. To appoint it we need to be informed
  - @ronef: Assembly will just lead the formation of the governance, it won't be the governance itself
  - @ronef: "Setup a new governance structure to address the communities needs"
  - @ronef: Once addressed the assembly will be dissolve
  - @infinisil: Original motivation was to move off Matrix
- @shlevy: What are you looking for from the Zulip feedback?
  - @ronef: Take part in giving feedback about how the assembly is formed
  - @shlevy: Have been operating on the assumption that you'd like proposals about how the assembly is formed. Glad to have clarity, that you make the decision (makes sense). So Zulip gives a place to give feedback and interact. A lot of energy invested
  - @ronef: Whatever is put into place, want to make sure it's legitimate, glad to have so much passion, though it would be great to focus that energy on the resulting governance structure, rather than the assembly. Glad for your summaries!
  - @shlevy: Glad for that, short timeline, board taking responsibility makes it clear that we can slow down
  - @ronef: We take on the full responsibility to make the assembly a reality. We won't be involved in forming the resulting governance
- @nat-418: Have done consensus-based organising for 10 years. Noticed: When you open up the floor for a consensus-based process, leads to a lot of discussions without purpose, because everybody wants to have their voice. Leads to hamster wheel of questions. Q: What can we do to have discussions reach a productive end product? E.g. these five questions to focus on and have consensus
  - @ronef: Willing to take accountability that we might've opened Zulip a bit too early. By Monday [today?] we should have an initial framework posted by the board. The thousands of messages are bit much. What I noticed to be helpful: When somebody opens a topic, have the person that opened it summarise/conclude it after a specific time.
  - @nat-418: Only moderators can "close" topics
    - @infinisil: Feel free to ping me (or @Moderators)
  - @thufschmitt: I think the open discussions are very valuable. A lot of unexpressed opinions, Zulip allowed people to express them. Maybe time to stop/break a bit, but very valuable
  - @zimbatm: Had feedback that it's too overwhelming. I think it's valuable to get more external feedbacks from experts, very useful
    - @shlevy: A lot on Zulip, seems like a lot and overwhelming, but seems like it tends towards consensus, has been very valuable. [am a bit behind on notes, feel free to fil in]
  - @thufschmitt: The 10 days from now is only for the initial assembly, the governance structure discussions are after that
- @ronef: Application process, will be public
- @shlevy (Shea: I don't think this was me): Current thoughts on assembly formation?
  - @ronef: Align on the fact that the assembly is only there to establish a governance structure that can last in the order of 5 years, will be dissolved afterwards
  - Clarity on what the assembly needs to do
  - Initial update on guidelines
  - Open up applications by May 9th
  - Make it public by applying on Zulip, need to set some rules about how to interact with these
  - @shlevy: Discussions on specific applications sounds valuable, I think this is doable in a respectful way that is useful. Notably not for votes, but just for expressing e.g. concerns
    - @Judson: If the concern is that public feedback would hurt/be divisive, could provide private feedback to the board instead.
      - @ronef: Always an option, tending to lean towards @shlevy's thoughts.
      - @shlevy: Role on assembly is inherently social, wouldn't want to put insults in people's faces, but needs to be able to handle the spotlight
- @ronef: How should the application form look exactly, what should applicants mention
  - Open applications May 9th, allow follow-up questions (e.g. any experience with governance structures? Fill in the data)
  - Close applications May 12th, then take a couple days to finalise the selection
- @shlevy: How dire is it when these timelines are blown? Flexible?
  - @ronef: Tending towards doing it right and take longer if necessary. Some people could use some time to relax a bit more
- @ronef: Assembly mission: Get together people to define the structure, hand it over in a transition period
  - @infinisil: E.g. Have seen some concerns about values not being represented in the assembly, but they're not going to be deciding over the community
  - @shlevy: Certain decisions are value-laden: Project or community? Who has voting rights? The values do influence these decisions, and there is an apparent split on them. Glad for the board to just make a call than to leave things hanging.
  - @ParetoOptimalDev: Echo concern of not caring about the composition of the initial assembly. What are the implications of an assembly without a person of color that knows about governance structures
  - @ronef: Clarification: I value these values, want to take them into account, let's be in the mindset of making progress and do with it being good enough and move on.
  - @Taeer: Thought: Discussion about legitimacy of the assembly, governance structure and their decisions. If an earlier process has less legitimacy, the burden shifts to a later process. E.g. if the board just decides on the assembly, it doesn't have legitimacy for some, but then it's moreso important for the assembly to be legitimate
  - @ronef: Fully agreed, want to make this as transparent as possible
- @raitobezarius: Take step back, what are we doing with this? Process out of crisis? Why did we create it?
  - @ronef: Personally, have had this in mind for a longer time to have a better structure for the community to make decisions. Goes back to previous "empowering teams" effort for the betterment of the community
  - We understand that there's a vacuum of decision making in various parts of the project. Personally: Me in the board didn't want to make these decisions
  - This is the next evolution of the governance, establishing it as we've grown.
  - Have talked with some experts about open source governance. Gives a step-by-step story of how such governence bodies develop. From single-person project to ? to teams to what we're going for now.
  - Goal: Come together as a community and have a structure that empowers the community
- @raitobezarius: Thanks, might've been operating on a different assumption. Some conflicting discussions on Zulip. How to get everybody on the same page?
  - @shlevy: There are decisions that need to be made, e.g. what is the direction, nature, standards of the project. A first version should be indicated. How much time do we need for this? The process can't happen very quickly, there's an apparent split that either needs a choice or a resolution, and this takes time. I'll wait and stay to stick around for this, participate if you have a stake, put your view forward. If the end result works that's great, if not it's a shame. [but ok?]
    - @zimbatm: What's a good quality for an assembly? Open-minded, great at listening and condensing community feedback
    - @raitobezarius: Agree, matter of time. Imo people have waited for a long time already, have run out of energy. Part ways as an alternative in 10 days?
      - @ronef: There was a lot of growing pains, people are looking for a way forward and doing everything they can. From you Ryan I feel a strong sense of urgency. You already made a decision to fork the community with Lix, what's your goal? Shorter timelines?
        - @raitobezarius: I don't think I forked the community with Lix, very much still in the community.
        - @raitobezarius: Forking Nixpkgs vs the community. Aux is going for forking Nixpkgs. Very mixed signals from the start on Zulip. Goal to give hope to people, but in 10 days extend the deadline and ask for more time, etc. How to detangle the discussions, agree to disagree?
        - @edef: Personal hope is that the final outcome is instead of splitting the community more and more, is to get things done that many of us ultimately want. Bring stuff together, unify the community more than where we started. Sense of definiteness. If there's really a rift, figure out if we need "camps" (hesitantly). Do we need communities that get along within but not with others? Where has our life gone?
    - @thufschmitt: Why does it pop up suddenly now. People have been waiting for years, why suddenly just 10 days when it could've been earlier and more gradually? Disproprotionate timeframes
  - @infinisil: Let's focus on positive things?
    - @Janik: Need to also discuss the negative things
    - @ronef: Agreed, but on a short timeline, should focus on what happens now
    - @zimbatm: By giving a path we remove some of the frustrations by people. We're all here because we want to hack on Nix. Fixing the structure allows relieving us of not being able to do that
  - @nat-418: @raitobezarius: The board understands the need for the board to give something concrete without being too hasty, and that people should be able to contribute. Ultimately for individuals, is it for me or not?
    - @ronef: Agree, when is a good time to make a decision, etc.? Have made great steps in recent weeks, have been able to do what we couldn't do in years. Understand the need to get to a closure. Want to acknowledge that everybody here is a volunteer, want to be thoughtful of that. Want to focus on keep making progress.
    - @infinisil: Have spent a lot of my free time on this, happy to get concrete things decided and move on
- @ronef: Topic: Assembly composition: Want it to be legitimate, needs to create the governance structure. Not final but:
  - Assembly size: Conclusion that 7 is generally a good number, can still be changed
  - Operate based on consensus-seeking mechanism internally in the assembly, have an alternative if that doesn't work.
  - Structure:
    - 5 are community members
      - 3 of them: Long-standing community members, respected, trusted, legitimate, hands-on experience with community issues
      - 2 of them: Not necessarily long-standing members, but to give a good representation of the values of the community. E.g. if there's no women in the 3, these 2 could balance that out
    - 2 are for external experts that:
      - Have done this before
      - 10 years experience with this sort of thing
      - Pay them to achieve the goal of the process

  - Excluding individuals on the board members/observers. Board will be involved because of accountability
  - @shlevy: Discussions on Zulip have indicated (2 or more) ill-defined camps about how projects should be run in general. Do we need representation of that? What about flakes vs non-flakes camp? Not a technical project directly, but should this kind of thing be watched out for? I think one of the things we should do is to make a call on these things instead of living in the limbo
    - @ronef: Looking for feedback. If the application process is fully open and certain topics are valued, e.g. should flakes vs non-flakes be part of the form? Do we feel strongly about that? If we think that both sides should be there but all 7 are flakes-biased on the same side, poor legitimacy?
    - @thufschmitt: People should know how to put these opinions aside in the assembly. The governance should not be directed based on whether people like flakes or not. External experts can help to make sure that the assembly keeps these questions on the side.
    - @ChrisMcDonough: Maybe we could have a period after the selection to talk about the make-up of the appointed people, without teeth, just to give thoughts and decide after that.
    - @ronef: Things get surfaced along the way, call out biases that might've been missing from the form. Applicants can learn from that what they should to bring into the community.
    - @Taeer: Maybe out of scope: Where does the number 7 come from? Considered a much larger assembly?
      - @ronef: Yes, have considered that! Talked with Carsten Wade who made the suggestion of having assembly of 31 people! Didn't think of that, am biased towards smaller groups. Discussed that, depends on how the application process goes. What if there's only 5 applications, what if there's 60 or so?
      - @Taeer: Several hundred? There's a lot of people on Zulip having discussions. How many people that apply will depend on how the assembly looks like. E.g. I wouldn't apply for an assembly of 7 people, would apply to one of 100s people
      - @shlevy: Note that the assembly isn't going away for months and comes back with a solution. The Zulip will continue to give input to the assembly.
      - @Taeer: What is the role of these 7 people? What if the Zulip _is_ the assembly?
      - @shlevy: RFC shepherd team kind of role, people that move forwards on decisions, small group to keep things focused, make calls when necessary. Making sure to get to a conclusion. With too many people consensus can't work, at some point some people just need to make a call.
  - @ronef: Zulip is part of it and the assembly will interact with it.
  - @ronef: Feedback on structure 5(3/2)/2?
    - @Chris: I'm thinking a slightly larger assembly would be good
      - @ronef: If we get a lot of applicants we could discuss a larger assembly size
      - @infinisil: Just need to make a call at some point, probably won't have a big impact
  - @shlevy: Have assembly work sponsored? People could do it e.g. on Tweag time like @infinisil, but others might not be able to. Needs a significant time committment
    - @ronef: Experts definitely need to be paid, I also want to sponsor community members. Need to define the goals, timelines, deliverables. Hard to anticipate how much funds are needed, small chicken-and-egg problem.
    - @infinisil: [I've lost connection]
    - @ronef: Company could sponsor the funds, while we allocate it
    - @shlevy: Hard to figure out how much needs to be raised. Don't want people to need to self-fund and not rely on Nix companies to fund that. I think there's a lot of people that would chip in to help with that
  - @ChrisMcDonough: Lots of people who are opposed to coorporate interests. Want to make sure the voices are heard.
    - @infinsil: Should be evaluated individually, not a binary thing
    - @ParetoOptimalDev: Would be hard to trust if the assembly members were managing sponsorships themselves with their own employers. Would be better to get funds via Foundation.
      - @ronef: Would also be my preference
- @ronef: (small recap)
- @ronef: Appointment process:
  - Thursday open for applications, how to do applications, in a stream as individual topics? Close it off on 12th, work based on community feedback. Appoint assembly and kick off by 14th
    - @BrianMcGee: When do they close, when feedback time? Maybe align feedback with a weekend?
      - @ronef: Open on Thursday, close on Sunday midnight, apply in that time.
      - Afterwards 48 hours to decide with continuous community feedback until the final decision.
- @shlevy: Noted some things below, any other things you're looking for feedback in?
  - @ronef: Facilitate working together in the same direction, kind of ambiguous?
  - @nat-418: Recommendation to be very direct about what you want
  - @ronef: How to appoint legitimately? How to quickly evaluate it and get quick community feedback?
    - @nat-418: Important: Consider the fact that you're the sole source of legitimacy for the community. Can't have a circular argument here about where legitimacy comes from. Only the board can give legitimacy to the assembly.
- @thufschmitt: Reminder: Appointing the assembly is only the start. The bulk of requirements and work is once it has kicked off, to take community feedback into account
- @ronef: Appreciate explicit questions for the board. No intention for the community to take this on their own, the board takes accountability and responsibility, appreciate all the effort regardless
- @djacu: Clarification regarding feedback asked for: Not sure if we can reach consensus among ~300 people in Zulip. Recommendation: Have a final summary of different points that the board can take. Not sure if that's feasible though.
  - @shlevy: Could package a summary together with the arguments. Criteria that somebody things why it's important and why.
  - @ronef: No pressure though, the accountability is on us, we'll make it work
- @ronef: Lots has been happening, appreciate all the efforts and understanding from everybody, I'm hopeful, let's be together
- @ronef: Fill out crab.fit for preferred times, targeting Wednesday and Friday

## Board requests for feedback

- How should the application look?
- What representation of what distinctions do we want to see on the assembly?
- What criteria should the board consider for appointment?
