# Open board call notes

Attendees: @hexa, @theophane, @ronef, @infinisil, @julien, @nat-418, @djacu, @minion3665, @olaf, @sarcasticadmin, @ehmry, @drupol, @rhendric, and a bunch more (like 30 in total?)

Notes by: @infinisil

## Notes

- @ronef: Very open calls, more transparency, no decisions
- @ronef: Top of the mind:
  - Planning to release application template for applications, walk through, feedback
  - Zulip has become hard to track, high bandwidth is a small concern
  - Background of the plan on Zulip, assembly, after assembly
  - @Raito: Representation of commercial interests discussion
  - @jonringer: Regarding banning Shea, Zulip not open
  - @nat-418: What does the board need near term?

- @ronef: Application process
  - Target to post by the end of the day (in Ron's timezone!)
  - Plan: Send in application, then post it on Zulip
  - Thinking about questions everybody should answer (more can be stated though)
  - Not sure if applications should be commentable/discussable
    - @ronef: Applicants will have to work openly with the community for many months
    - @ronef: On the other hand, easy to get out of hand. Don't want to disincentivise applications
    - @ehmry: People will pick apart the applications elsewhere if people can't comment on them.
    - @nat-418: Let critiques happen in non-official channels instead
    - @djacu: Having them be commentable is a good idea, but agree that we need clear messaging about moderation, can get heated. Why better than not? People have to interact with the community, this is the initial stage
    - @olaf: If they can be discussed on official channels, moderation should be stricter: Person that is being discussed can say when a point has been heard and should not be discussed further
    - @infinisil: Let everybody only comment once except the applicant
    - @ronef: Hearing lots of similar concerns, open-season commentary not so much in favor of, but some thoughts about structured conversation with moderation guidelines. We'll think about it with the mod team, don't have a lot of time. Reaching out to the board is always a possibility
    - @thufschmitt: Can the mods keep up with this even? Would be an intense weekend
    - @raitobezarius: Don't hesitate to reach out to the mod team
    - @tomberek: Allowing public commentary and trying to moderate it would end up in odd situations.
    - @ronef: Random idea: QnA for all applications, not targeted to individual applications
  - Questions we want to ask:
    - What are you applying for? Community (Veteran/General) / Experts
    - Why are you a good fit for the assembly? (meaty question)
    - Why are you applying?
    - Why do you care about the community?
    - How long have you been involved?
    - Past contributions?
    - Past contributions to governance? Inside/external
    - Any people that can vouch for you? (not sure about this one)
    - Vision category: What is your agenda?
    - Represent a specific subgroup? Care about that
    - Is there a subgroup that you don't represent but think should be represented?
    - How do you make sure you stick around until the end?
    - Estimate: 2 weeks effort over 3 months
    - Any constraints to consider (e.g. timezone)
    - Relevant conflicts of interest disclosure
  - @raitobezarius: Are you comfortable working synchronously/asynchrounously?
  - @nat-418: Timeline for the assembly's work?
    - @ronef: Most of it is defined by the assembly. Zulip was mainly meant for the assembly to take input from the community
    - @ronef: Once assembly is appointed, they come back with a plan to execute, as a community we give them time to complete it
    - @nat-418: Re 3 months/3 weeks, expectation or?
      - @ronef: Should get a rough idea of what commitment to expect
      - @ronef: There's preexisting work for this, can get it done quickly
      - @ronef: Can comment in Zulip, but high bar, is there anything crucial missing, etc.
    - @djacu: Thoughts about freeform section of the application?
      - @ronef: Good point, adding it
  - @Vextium: Clarification on two seats reserved for marginalized folks?
    - @ronef: 5 community seats, should represent a pretty big part of the community. No specific seats being reserved for specific groups. Have the question on representation
    - @ronef: Clarification that the assembly has a job, then gets dissolved once it's done
    - @Vextium: Definition of "marginalized"?
    - @ParetoOptimalDev: With no explicit inclusion, governance structures would reflect their makeup. Risks making it harder to trust the result.
    - @ronef: Committed to creating a strong representation in the assembly. Worried about how to reserve seats for specific types of representation. Better to do with the assembly over a longer timeframe.
    - @ronef: Also not sure how many applications we get, can get tricky
  - @raitobezarius: Regarding subgroups, technical vs social subgroups? E.g. people working on Nixpkgs or people helping onboarding, etc.
    - @ronef: Not trying to be neutral, trying to be the voice of the board. Want there to be explicit representation of minority groups of anything we do. Have taken action towards that in the past. On one hand trying to get the community through this as a board, but also very much caring about it personally to have a good representation.
    - @ronef: Have put in effort to find diverse experts. If I can do more, let me know!
    - @ronef: Obviously a sensitive topic, trying to get us to a good point that everybody feels comfortable with
  - @ronef: Regarding whether helping marginalized folks is part of the foundations mission, that's currently not on the boards explicit mission at least
- @rhendric: Imo the board and people controlling the Zulip are making a mistake: Driving down the middle. Statements about marginalized values is a fair take, but they run the risk of alienating certain people.
  - @rhendric: The suspension indicates a certain left-leaning position. Alienates certain people. Marginalised people previously felt uncomfortable. Ideally these values would be set up by the assembly/governance. In this initial phase, if we don't have a better stance on this, people will jump. Need to pick a lane and communicate it.
  - @ronef: Chicken and egg problem, how do we make these decisions? Does the board have to decide this? AM hoping to get to the point of having an assembly/governance that then establishes this. Do we need more time to appoint it?
  - @rhendric: Would probably take a while to discuss. I'd like to help the conversation
  - @ronef: Glad to check biases. Do we need to figure out these issues before that? Or would that delay the process too much? Am busy with other things
  - @rhendric: Tough questions, willing to talk about them at length. Seems like it's not possible to bootstrap without addressing these questions
  - @ronef: I hope folks like you will apply, so we have an assembly that can make good progress like that with the community. I don't have an answer for this right now
  - @djacu: Regarding @rhendric's initial question, seems like @rhendric has taken a hands-off approach to community values, want to pass it off to the community, which should solve questions around the board deciding this
    - @thufschmitt: Board mission doesn't have any of such values, it's not our direct responsibility, we're just moving towards setting the structure up via the assembly
    - @rhendric: Needs to be the boards job to set it up, values will inform the assembly. Need to set clear expectations of values. E.g. regarding people representing specific minorities. Board needs to decide what our values are _now_, while the governance will decide the values in the longer term.
    - @rhendric: Was hoping these values can be done organically and no hard decisions need to be made yet. Doesn't work, scares people off on both sides. Ideally don't scare anybody off, but that seems hard
    - @thufschmitt: Regarding values informing assembly: Candidates should be able to understand each others position, not just camp on what they think is right. Have a stance on this based on my views, what kind of social group I'd want to be in. My goal here now is to set up the Nix community for success (for some definition). Need to find a good set of common values to allow as many as possible to be involved. Can't happen overnight.
- @ehmry: Are the forms the same for the various roles, how to decide who's running for what?
  - @thufschmitt: Forms likely the same, answers will be different. Expecting to have people pick a specific role, not "any"
  - @thufschmitt: Assembly will be appointed by the board (bootstrap problem)
- @ronef: Saying it: Women should be on the assembly. Yes somebody that represents gender minorities should be present to speak from that viewpoint, others have a harder time seeing that. What is the bar for these values, what do we need to touch upon? Do we need to delay the process to define these?
  - @nat-418: No need to delay the assembly. Board is in power to do it. Was trying to come up with these axioms on Zulip, basic values. Board can use its power to define/accept these. Board says what happens, and we won't debate this. Make it clear that we can't have certain values
  - @ronef: Now sure how to communicate this
  - @nat-418: Gotta write the code, we're programmers!
  - @ronef: Don't want to debate all of the items, any proposal for how to communicate this?
    - @nat-418: Have a proposal, will post it when I'm unbanned tomorrow!
  - @ronef: Fully agree with @rhendric: Want to work with (almost?) anybody willing to collaborate (didn't say this very well, @rhendric said it better!)
  - @JudsonLester: Agree with @nat-418 that we should have the assembly as fast as possible. The way to communicate the values can be by appointing the assembly. Anything else is confusing and extraneous
  - @KarlTychos: Agree, there should be clear explicit values, but I urge you to try this. @nat-418 tried this, but a lot of people can't agree on the specific wording. I don't think anybody agrees with the specific values, but just the wording. Make it higher-level, broader.
  - @ronef: Delay application process? Was hoping to post tonight?
    - [everybody disagrees]
  - @ronef: Should we set the values clear before selecting the assembly?
    - [most agree, some disagree]
  - @ronef: Can't promise to set clear values, etc. with the short timeline. I'm trying to gague how critical it is
    - @djacu: To satisfy this, what about the board announcing the values that influenced the decision of the appointed assembly
      - @hexa: Problem: Would invite discussion about the values either way [?]
    - @raitobezarius: Echoing what @rhendric said: Having explicit values will help regarding this. If not, people will try to infer them in discussions
    - @ronef: @rhendric: Would you have time to help with some items in a short timeline?
      - @rhendric: Can help out in the next 3 hours!
- @ronef: Some of the comments are about values, can hit on those briefly
  - Question: What does the board need in the near term?
    - @ronef: Need help with value statement (looks like @rhendric can help there). Create clarity, trying to minimise big discussions and establish clarity.
    - @ronef: Motivate folks to apply. If you're interested in applying or know others, please do!
    - @ronef: Any specific items people want on the template?
    - @ronef: How to have some discussions on the applications without it going out of hand?
  - Question: Regarding banning Shae, Zulip not feeling open
    - @ronef: At the end of the day, moderation is important. It's a suspension, Shae can still apply, can still join the meaningful discussions after the assembly is appointed. Wouldn't want an ecosystem where the burnout escalates. Should be able to have pragmatic discussions on contentious topics.
    - @KarlTychos: I think Shae represented my views very well, made me relaxed. Him being banned made me anxious about the process, think it's sad (@jonringer: Seconded). Him still being allowed to join the assembly is a non-thing (he wouldn't want to I presume). @nat-418 only being suspended for 48 hours, people think it's strange. For many people it instilled worries. Many people thought Shae would represent their views, no other candidate for that right now.
    - @ronef: Big retro to do, constrained timeline, jumping from fire to fire. Can't always reach an ideal conclusion. Hoping to have an assembly that represents everybody's views. Maybe somebody else with those views could apply.
    - @KarlTychos: 48 hours for both would've been a better choice. Regarding finding somebody else, hard to find somebody comparable with having both sides in mind.
    - @infinisil: Doesn't need to be a final decision, the board could change the moderation teams decision, they appointed the moderators
    - @ronef: Not a great view, was very constrained about setting up moderation for Zulip.
    - @raitobezarius: Appeal was offered, was rejected, decision is final.
    - @ronef: If we feel split, could be revisited. Happy to follow up, also personally followed up with Shea
    - @jonringer: Personal view: Almost all issues are due to poorly defined domains of responsibilities, where the line is drawn. E.g. sponsorship lacked a community governance body. Regarding Zulip, should the board step in to overrule the decision. Symptoms of the underlying cause to define common set of principles and moving forward with them. Probably started with Eelco delegating it to others without being involved anymore, kind of inherited, not sustainable. Requires the foundation without Eelco now. Refraining from taking any kind of stance has bittered both sides.
    - @JudsonLester: Yes we have such problems, this process is meant to resolve this. We should stay on a timeline of putting the assembly together. Until that's done we don't have a governance structure which could allocate these responsibilities. Regarding the moderation, the loudest voices are the most upset. Want to give room to the moderation team, hard job. Moderation could be more transparent. People were not suspended for their positions, but rather how they were expressing them, their behaviour regarding a consensus-seeking process.
    - @ronef: Bottom line, the mission is to create an evolution of the governance structure that can set up success. It's very tricky, but the first step is to define the assembly that can even start defining that structure. If we can't even unlock that phase, it's hard to go even anywhere. We might not make decisions that are perfect all the time. We have a mod team on Zulip, let them operate. Once the assembly is appointed they can decide moderation, since they'll be in charge of building up the governance structure.
    - @ronef: Admit that Zulip was opened too early, before the board statement on Monday that gave more details.
    - @ronef: Want to move forward instead of taking steps back and trying to resolve moderation issues. Let's get an assembly together that's good enough, with its only task to create the governance structure. Everybody is trying their best. Short timelines, sensitive topics. Small steps, easy to get stuck in conversations, easy to stop making progress. We all care about Nix, this great technology, in the future, everybody will learn about this idea! Core reason we're all here, there's issues coming up, but let's get back into why we're all doing this instead of being with their families or touching grass: We all care about Nix! As long as we can figure it out, support each other and roll on, I'm very hopeful.
    - @ronef: Regarding Shae ban, when I talked with him, he articulated things well, summaries too, but could not track all of these discussions. For the timeline to work, gotta trust the decisions and move on to next goals. Need better moderation? Yes! Better governance? Yes!
    - @KarlTychos: Understand that he wasn't banned for his views but how he expressed them. Different people find different things offensive. It depends on what the mod team finds offensive. Currently "expressing yourself like Shea is bad". Don't agree with it, leads to people not participating. Difference in who finds what okay. One side getting banned, the other not. No people left from one side to apply to the assembly.
    - @ronef: Hope that we can figure out the values, get a lot of applicants and get an assembly that has a good representation to ease this.
    - @KarlTychos: Urge the mod team to think about appealing Shae, have few people left with that capacity, was respectful, put arguments together well. Hope there can be a reachout to amend this. Looks like he's not interested in coming back based on how he was treated.
    - @ronef: Will take it on with the mod team, will follow up
- @raitobezarius: Regarding the seat distribution. Do you see a need/preference for people to be affiliated with commercial interests. E.g. good to have people from certain companies, etc.
  - @ronef: Big question, what's the bar for commercial interests, etc. Imo the problem is huge companies taking over, that's the bar for commercial interest. But there's other bars, e.g. individuals from companies, I don't really consider that commercial interest. What even is commercial interest, how much of the individual is aligned with the community vs the corporate overlords. I see most people engaged in Nix not commercially interested. We're not generating any cash.
  - @ronef: We don't want two people having the same potential influence in the same position. E.g. with an assembly, probably shouldn't have two people from one company, could be a problem.
  - @thufschmitt: If commercial interest is somebody coming in "I represent the interests of my company", that's a definite no, we're not considering that. People come with a background and are obviously biased, concsiously or not, but everybody involved is involved as who they are, not as a company.
  - @ehmry: Strong opinion on this, but people need to be clear about conflicts of interest in the application form, needs to be a serious question.
  - @ronef: I think @thufschmitt put it well. If google comes in with a head of open [@infinisil lost connection]
  - ... something no two people from the same company.
  - @danielle: Community volunteers should be represented
  - @ronef: What is considered a volunteer? People working on the weekend is volunteer work
  - @olaf: On Zulip, people articulated that affiliation with a company changes the aims of people. People primarily working as volunteers changes the values.
  - @ronef: Why?
  - @raitobezarius: E.g. you have people that work throughout the week for something non-Nix, but use Nix on the weekend. Engage in the community through that dynamic. People may use Nix in their company but not sell Nix products.
  - @ronef: Shouldn't exclude people based on their job, need to consider individual cases [?]. Relationship of somebody working on Nix can be something positive. There's a scale, need to minimise potential harm by taking it seriously.
  - @ParetoOptimalDev: Just people who have jobs that use Nix, interests can be affected by those jobs. Would like safe guards against interests changing.
  - @ronef: Best thing to do, abide by conflicts of interests?
  - @ParetoOptimalDev: E.g. what if somebody from a small company suddenly gets a big client, turns into bad-faith actor.
  - @ronef: Never had a conflicts of interest policy before, drafted one before but never pulled it through. Agree that there should be a conflicts of interest policy in our culture, call it out openly.
  - @thufschmitt: Action item: Make it explicit that people on the assembly should not not be directly sponsored by a company. One layer protection against conflicts of interest. Benefits: Makes people freeer, can say no to their employer. Proof of goodwill, if people are ready to spend their free time, strong indicator that they're not doing that for corporate overlords. Important to have something like this in the application process.
  - @olaf: Shouldn't reduce this topic to conflicts of interest. Being sponsored changes how one looks at Nix. While we don't need a corporate representation in the assembly, at least have representation of different sponsorship states.
  - @infinisil: Personal words on my own situation in Tweag and community, etc.
  - @raitobezarius: Regarding fundamental principles. Don't see people saying that Nix is successful enough that it's everywhere. Compare to e.g. Haskell which avoids success at all costs. Prioritises different types of values. Objectives what we want to achieve in Nix is also a conflict of interest.
  - @ronef: Just different values represented. E.g. disclose that Nix should not grow to infinite but stay small, etc. Aiming to represent as many values as possible.
  - @thufschmitt: Explicit question is in the draft: "What's your agenda?"
  - @ronef: Word it as value, not a conflict of interest, should be disclosed
  - @raitobezarius: Values could be shaped by the company
  - @ronef: Can be shaped in all kinds of ways, doesn't really depend on being in a company. Individuals from a company can have very different views
  - @raitobezarius: Personally I think it's more likely, but not directly influenced
  - @thufschmitt: Personal background, my reason for working at Tweag is because I cared about Nix and Tweag offered me a job for that. Not the other way around, if I just wanted a job, I probably wouldn't work on Nix. There's probably an influence of my employer, but definitely not primary motivation, and not shaping my vision.
  - @KarlTychos: Agree with just specifying conflicts of interests, should be sufficient. Conflicts of interest can be anything, can even not be a job
- @ronef: Thanks, great discussions, I believe we all are trying our best what would be good for Nix. Love y'all, let's get through this!
